* Source auditing techniques
    The primary skill is idenifying which code is relevant / reachable and most likely vulnerable. Answering the questions of "Where should I spend my time auditing?"

	But first you must learn to read code and find the common bug patterns. Some bug patterns will be specific to the language, others will be inherent to the way that software is designed.

    Source auditing versus black box testing and reversing
    Complexity of problems solved (parsing, etc)
    Code smell / style
    Find components and then look at boundaries
    Track down all abstractions meanings
    Large number of false positives versus fuzzing
        - Only audit code which you know is compiled in and reachable
    What types of bugs will you find versus fuzzing?
    Where to start auditing?
    Software is  built in layers, by different teams. Auditing the layers individually looking for assumptions violated between layers.
        - scoping
    Language understanding is a necessity, read K&R C book
    Read all comments
    Understand purpose of code and what author was intending and how it fails to achieve this purpose
    Find software authors or groups which write bad software and blame them
    Auditing code which is not used much, common execution paths have been validated through the use.
    Very old code and very new code
    Read bug reports and watch code as it changes
    Profile over a long period of versions

* Source auditing patterns
    0. Attack surface principles for source auditing
        - file input, env variables, ip socks, unix domain socks, netlink socks, update channels, any part where software is reaching out for some server, ipc from other processes
    1. naieve apoproach is to find functions which are prone to overflow
        - strcpy, strcat, sprintf, etc
    2. better approach is to start with valid attack surface and perform input validations
        - look for array/string length checks
        - static buffer sizes
    3. Meta character injection
    4. Pointer manipulation 
        - array access, deref's
    5. Validate all math for bounds checking and allocation sizes
        - need to know all promotion and signedness rules for integers
    6. System calls for command injections
        - popen, system, etc.
    7. Validate struct sizes and initializations

* Source auditing tools
    What do you want from a source auditing tool?
        1. Navigation cross references
            - search for definitions, ctags
            - search for use cases, eclipse
        2. Graphs
        3. Understands pre-processor directives which are and are not compiled in.
        4. Search by file name
        5. Search by C struct / C++ object types
        6. Use joern to search for common patterns in AST
        7. Meld
        8. Clang static analyzer
        9. Visual studio
        10. Most automated and commercial programs produce too many false positives such as Grammatech's products

